README.md, before:

# Foci.API

- clone github repo
- open Foci.API.sln in VS 2022 (I used the community edition)
- make sure you have installed the following workloads in VS:
  - .NET desktop development
  - ASP.NET and web development
  - .NET Core cross-platform development
- the API can use either a SQL Server database, or an in-memory database - this is controlled in appSettings.json -> "useInMemoryDatabase" flag
	- for in-memory, there is no need to configure DB access, but the initial data is blank, you need to use the API (either front-end or Swagger) to supply some data
	- for SQL Server, run the db.sql file on a SQL Server instance and then configure your connection string in appSettings.json -> "DefaultConnection" (I used SQL Server Express edition)
- hit F5 - you will be taken to the swagger page of this API project
- to run tests, right click on the test project and select "Run Tests"

# Design considerations

- impelement proper REST using verbs
- keep controllers simple, use business logic (extensions, mappers, managers) to create reusable and well organized business logic implementation
- keep clear separation between models and service contracts and use mappers for conversions; keep clear separation between request/response data models.
- use design patterns like factory and DI to make code extensable, reusable and testable
- help users with Swagger / Open API
- document endpoints
- use model validation, protect against SQL injections (use EF Core for instance or parameterized queries)

# Demo

You can find a demo instance (using SQL Server) of this API at http://foci-demo.azisoft.ca/swagger
You can also find a demo instance of the front-end application consuming this API at http://foci-demo.azisoft.ca/app

Commit message:

Mention Docker support in README
Added note about Docker support in project settings.

README.md, after:

# Foci.API

- clone github repo
- open Foci.API.sln in VS 2022 (I used the community edition)
- make sure you have installed the following workloads in VS:
  - .NET desktop development
  - ASP.NET and web development
  - .NET Core cross-platform development
- the API can use either a SQL Server database, or an in-memory database - this is controlled in appSettings.json -> "useInMemoryDatabase" flag
	- for in-memory, there is no need to configure DB access, but the initial data is blank, you need to use the API (either front-end or Swagger) to supply some data
	- for SQL Server, run the db.sql file on a SQL Server instance and then configure your connection string in appSettings.json -> "DefaultConnection" (I used SQL Server Express edition)
- hit F5 - you will be taken to the swagger page of this API project
- to run tests, right click on the test project and select "Run Tests"
- docker support can be added as part of this solution by Visual Studio in project settings, and in the CI/CD pipelines, but it's not part of the solution.

# Design considerations

- impelement proper REST using verbs
- keep controllers simple, use business logic (extensions, mappers, managers) to create reusable and well organized business logic implementation
- keep clear separation between models and service contracts and use mappers for conversions; keep clear separation between request/response data models.
- use design patterns like factory and DI to make code extensable, reusable and testable
- help users with Swagger / Open API
- document endpoints
- use model validation, protect against SQL injections (use EF Core for instance or parameterized queries)

# Demo

You can find a demo instance (using SQL Server) of this API at http://foci-demo.azisoft.ca/swagger
You can also find a demo instance of the front-end application consuming this API at http://foci-demo.azisoft.ca/app
